---
title: "Since the conversion to pkgng no new ports?"
layout: post
comments: yes
category: patches
---

Back on February 3rd, it was announced time to bid farewell to the old pkg_
tools.  Which will EOL on September 1, 2014.  And, boy was it annoying.  So,
it didn't take long to convert my systems at home to start using pkgng, and
it grew on me quickly.

But, then I noticed that for the last few days `portrac` has been saying that
there are no ports needing update.  Seems odd that nothing has been changing
in for this long, but there were lots of ports I know I hadn't updated at home
that I had to deal with on work computer.

Finally, I took a peek inside and its not PKGNG aware :disappointed_relieved:

Patched it in a similar manner to how `ports-mgmt/pkg_cutleaves` handles PKGNG.

PR: ports/186963

----

The delay between switching and not getting new ports notices, was probably
that pkg2ng didn't move the old stuff in `/var/db/pkgs` to `/var/db/pkgs.old`
that several online articles on making the switch had said it would.  But,
rather it left everything in `/var/db/pkgs`.  (This was actually a good thing,
since I was worried about how it was going to do the `/var/db/pkgs.old` move,
since `/var/db/pkgs` is a separate dataset in my zpool.)  So, it was as ports
got rebuilt that led to the old information disappearing causing the old pkg_
tools to run out of information on what had been installed.  And, the
__20140208__ entry in `/usr/ports/UPDATING` (Affecting users of icu) was
probably what helped lots of old information disappear from my `/var/db/pkgs`.
